# Butterfly-image-classification
Train, Test. Validation data set for 75 butterfly species. All images are 224 X 224 X 3 in jpg format . Train set consists of 9285 images partitioned into 75 sub directories one for each species. Test set consists of 375 images partitioned into 75 sub directories with 5 test images per species. Valid set consists of 375 images partitioned into 750 sub directories with 5 validation images per species. 3 CSV files are included. The butterflies.csv file consists of 3 columns with 10,035 rows, one row for each image in the dataset. The columns are filepaths, labels and data set. The filepaths column contains the relative path to the image. The labels column contains the species label associated with the image file. The data set column specifies which dataset (train, test or valid) the associated image belongs to. The classdict.csv file is provided to enable use of the trained model. It consists of 6 columns, classindex, class, SCIENTIFIC NAME, height, width, and scale by and 75 rows one row for each species. class_index is the integer index of the class. class is the species name which is the common name for the butterfly species. SCIENTIFIC NAME is the official scientific name of the species. Height and width are the values used by the model when trained. scale by is the value to scale the image pixels by. For EfficientNet model the scale is 1 since these models expect pixels in the range 0 to 255. The CLASS NAMES.csv file has 2 columns by 75 rows. The COMMON NAME column contains the common name of the butterfly and the SCIENTIFIC NAME column contains the associated scientific name of the species. Finally the 6 images file contains 6 butterfly images. This file is used to demonstrate use of the prediction function within the kernel.
